# A Deep Learning Approach to Identifying Messi: Darknet YOLOv4 Custom Object Detector
<p align="justify">Object detection is a computer vision technology that deals with detecting instances of semantic objects of certain classes, such as humans, cars, weapons, etc…, in digital images and videos. The use cases of object detection models are endless as they help in tasks relating to image annotation, activity recognition, face detection, face recognition, video object co-segmentation and the tracking of objects. Advanced militaries use object detection through the combination of human visual salience and visual psychology, so as to achieve rapid and accurate detection of military objects on the vast and complex battlefield. Smart cities rely on the use of object detection to implement smart traffic management systems able to detect vacant on-street parking. This project trains a Darknet framework YOLOv4 object detection model to identify and follow Messi throughout a football game. Messi is the greatest footballer to ever play and how he plays defines his greatness, his patience and off ball movement consistently get him into scoring opportunities which he rarely wastes. When he has the ball, his low center of gravity and reactions allow him to move into space where their previously was none. His quickness and agility along with the complex task of identifying only him in a situation where there are 22 other players, 11 kitted the same, made this a great project to learn about object detection techniques.</p>
